video  vote philosophy and political philo
but  it's not an overview it's not a summary it's not a book review of the work
of  a particular
to  talk about how this phil
he  has impacted
which  in a lot of ways it's worth talking about in general and its
especially  well set
format
people  whether it's in a university context
the  job co workers
say  in a
a  universal generalizing abstract way that the philosophy
there  stole
or  maybe even some modern philosopher like haberman
but  then if you if you ask them a triton a polite and once
how  does the philosopher is to
change  their lives
they  may have nothing
if  nothing positive
once  in a while he talked somebody but aristotle and they can just vely say that it's part of european culture
or  that influences
there  or something like that
but  they're not able to break down for you
of  political activism in terms of particular aspiration
how  aristotle actually shapes or forms what they do what they say how they feel
how  they live their lives
no  shade but and you know again i've spent a large part of my life
inside  universities
campuses
and  talking to people with p
getting  peace
but  i think the common just made is true of people at all levels of education because it also met people who
dropped  at a high school but he independently took the time to read and really cared about certain authors
the  philosophy section of the library but they still couldn't really speak in those terms of
so  you know for you max sterner
the  mean thing i've known for her an you tube is talking about politics
the  vegan movement
politics  of the college politics of animal right
and  one subtle but obvious way in which max sterner influences how engaged those
is  that i simply address animal right
a  set of
arbitrary  human created
so
implicitly  and explicitly there are many people with intensely who would talk
about  animal
of  the animals having a soul or in terms of nature having an inherent
but
and
you  read max sterner or maybe you've come to this video after looking at the wikipedia article
you  know that he would be very very critical that sort of
so  in philosophical proteins the hypostatizing
instead  talking about values
to  use my own imagery this isn't putting
we  draw like line
why  does the border exists
canada  and the
why  is the border exists wearing
in  spain and
doesn't  exist in
it  isn't something inherent to the melton
the  river or the forest of the
are  human created values that we project on the map and that doesn't mean there meaning
but  they are in a sense or betray
and  they may have been arbitrated by
war  or negotia
but  we regard these as completely human credit
so  in the same way the human being sit down and draw lines on a map sit down i negotiated
preconviction  in
i  don't regard animal rights
originate
the  animal
we  as human
and  that is very scenario that showing men
i  read max sterner
before  i got seriously interested but as for
the  way back is like your
around  there nineteen ninety nine
and  they remember one of my professors who was a lifelong expert in but us
i  was telling him before so stern of the heathen he tired of stern
stir  became a little bit famous
criticized  by
so  is his place in history was guaranteed actually because he
was  criticized by
it
a  marriage number of pages of
really  bad writing it's not worth reading
but  that guaranteed democratic
anywhere  remember i went through sterner main book the ego and its own and i picked
out  all of the pasters dealing with the philosophy of
and
selfishness  and self less
philosophic  concept of the cell and
and  them together in one document for my professor this professor game was a life long
but  i
and  his first reaction after he read it was
very  but
actually  i was said to be a
there's  definitely a kind of easy bridge between philosophy of master
and  the horror the core philosophy
of  votes which is also very interested
none
and  you know i would say also but his is interval
and  with
the  role of desire in cognition
you
gloss  as wishful
but  if you really think of what do we mean when we talk about wishful
how  wanting
how  desire shapes what we perceive and failed to
these  are things that
both  bishop
some
anyway
i  got er i got some head man
lately  from some one who watches
and  when this guy was angry
yeah  i could read out exactly my reply by think there's no point he reproached me
by  saying that various ostensibly good things
including  ostensibly good pointing to an towards him
supportive  and positive toward
he  reproached me by suggesting that i only did the
and  this brings us back to some many many people would respond to that as an insult which it was meant to be
i  mean he was a reproach he was really insulting
insulting  my work and what i've done with my career i don't mean on you
to  so interest
and  i wrote back said
you're  right
you  know these are
all  of this is self it
it  tells you something about
who  i am
i  do think you can look at my reasons for why i went to
her  work oussoor country and
some  humanitarian worker did a lot of
i  do
i  own that
there  is an element of self intent
even  i mean the most explicitly humanitarian work i did was with a
that  literally handed out sax of rice to
a  lot of the other work was less
we're  doing research on
what
government  at
some  of that is not merely a face
directly  humanitarian as
but  it is to humanitarian work in enamel
you  know what i went through these examples whether it's my concern about
the  extent
of  the aging
canada  also banish nabor creed
also  called the even
whether  it's the language research or the humanitarian war or what i'm doing now in terms
of  engaging with the politics of began
i  didn't say back to him now how dare you say this is self interested how dare you say
that  one on
so
you're  right
i  am doing these things that i myself
you  need to understand
who  i am what kind of a guy
why  this is in
of  course he meant that more than just the
why  i take it
but  that is nevertheless part of it i mean taking
you  know my grandmother lived her whole life in canada
and  never took any interest in our native people in the creed the agib
my  parents
through  the vietnam war and protested against the vienna and never really took an interest
in  lower cambodia
even  though they actually
a  flag and
why  did they not take
why  was it not in their self interest and it was in mine
ultimately  because of who i am because the type of guy
and  acknowledging the rose
not  holding up this kind of the
cultural  tradition of pretending that you're doing things in a self sacrifice
but  openly and honestly saying yes there is an element of my ego involved here there's
an  element of my self expression that's really the crucial term is
to  understand that in the same way that a painter or an
start  a project
because  of who they are in an meaningful
i  also took on these projects whether it was language researcher humanitarian work or explicitly
political  work political activity
because  of who i am because of got it in me to do
because  of my intent
and  my self interest and dealing with it honestly
that's  a real example of the legacy of max turns
so  look us in the video i didn't want to provide any kind of overview of the philosopher this
isn't  like a survey video this isn't an introduction
to  someone
just  talking about
how  it is impacted my life and i think even though in vague
about  it i think it should be kind of obvious
sterner  in many ways actually led me to be more interested in boast
and  then also it led me to have this more honest and open
oh
the  individual as political activists or political law
where  we don't pretend that the rule of political advocacy
self  sacrificing is so abiding
you  know i also don't deal with these things in terms of like white guilt you know what i mean it's not like oh
i  feel so terrible about
born  white and canada therefore interested in native people and poor people and press with therefore
dressed  in people who are imprisoned and prison
those  are also interesting
were  you just talk honestly no plot who you are i do why you care
if  he what your values are made what your great of role is in this political theater
you  talking about and may be without ve role
this  particular you know a political figure of
so  yeah i mean
sterne's  own politics in his time
really  attack
an  example overly idealistic views of what the organization
of  labor would entail it's a very certain understand rapidly why turns perspective is
he  did not think that organizing a labor union
going  to see the world or make the world a better place
of
idealistic  ways this very popular man he was alive at the same time as to
been  mentioned actually starter compares
organizing  labor unions will do he compares to organized crime
the  time was put in sight full of think about the decades immediately after max turner's death during his life after
describes  what organizing a labor union is going to really accomplish in the work
similar  to organizing you know like the mafia
this  is self interested it's about money it's about you know you got a bunch of window washers
who  want to make more in
we  want a better working comin
maybe  they want better safety on the job but i and they're going to get organized and they're going to refuse to
work  unless people pay them in
and  there's going to be inevitable violence
between  the
window  washers and the other window washers who refused to work for the union
and  churchill er price you
to  work for
this  polly downed earth
an  idealistic non ideal
pragmatic
of  what organizing
labor  really entails what trying to get better wages and working
and  that is like a glass of cold water compared to all the bushes that emerged
both  in left wing in the right wing
in  sterner
that's  really a classical water compared to everything that went on and anarchism
in  academic essays really seriously arguing that in the sense maturer invented an arc
there  already was a kind of christian anarchism at that time and hilariously sterner attacks
the  anarchists the people who published he says the anarchists everything that's wrong with the christians is wrong with the anarchists
but  the anarchist even worse they're even more pious there even more true believers than the christians and at the
time  he was running that was really true i maintained published prior to and
life  time he really touched off a new direction in anarchism
very  down to
but
you  know one of the misconceptions about sterner is that his discussions of selfishness and the
cell
well  put this way lack of humanitarian
lack  of human
and  that's not the point at all sternness very clearly in his tax and actually pointed this out to david
leopold  the editor of the main
all
and  by the way the english translation is terrible you have to read the original
maybe  the spanish is okay maybe the
but  specifically the end
poor  the remembering the tidehole you know
says  he so very clearly at several points in the text but there's one particular where he says
he  loves all mankind
he  said its point is not that
he  doesn't love particular man or that isn't care bokes humanitarian
he  can even love only antidote love for all my anatto
but  this point is that he relates to man
as  real individuals one at a time face
meaningless  and really dangerous
to  think of mankind as a hallowed abram
to  think of it a nationalistic term
universalist
you  have to deal with people one of the
otherwise  you're really on a very dangerous
as  a very important warning me depending what as you are when you read
you  know you might read it is a teenager and my reader is an old man there's a lot of truth there and in
some  ways it takes life expire
why  that's important another i mean another little aphorism from sterner on this
of  really dealing with the human reality of people in the violin
and  the human reality of people even as a political movement in aggregate
you  know he reproaches other philosophers by
the  approach of these other philosopher
to  pretend
he  only all mount if only all of mankind war one hat
nobody  would have to take off their hat to one not
no  obviously it's wider in the organ
the  way the way you are
but  that that actually even though his just a funny turnip has that really does cut deep
you  know because it sang the approach of these other philosophy
especially  of course nationalistic classes but also left wing socialists and
in  trying to
as  one great towering
you're  trying to argue that somehow your elevating
by  not dealing with the brutal grady reality of who they are and what they are now
canalboat  this actually in terms of the innismore terms of what is the
are  we going to talk about the reality of who begins are when i deal with him face to face
are  going to do or even men
you  know cause then for the vininese tive you know are we get either glory or demonise
this  abstract group of people or we going to talk in a praga
face  to
you  know one hat on each
the  reality of these bore the same thing with the example of labor
now  who are these individual workers what is it they want individually probably again higher
wages  better work in
shorter  working
they're  not trying to save the world therefore the function of their labor
you  have to really evaluate in this way what is it going to be what's going to happen
who  are begins what are there objected
our  course we can generalize the sum
some  begins are obsessed with wales save the whale save the dolphin
some  begins don't care without at all some begins are obsessed with saving a stray cats
they  have an approached the movement that will face on that as some begins are really based on
like  air pollution
go  woman
total  in the totally different approach and paradigm instead of objectives and concerns some beans are just obsessed
with  food or weight loss or health
it  really again sort of one hand on each head not pretending that there's one hallowed
abstraction  that it comes as these people that glorifies them an elevated
and  the other hand not looking at your opponents not looking at me eaters or even hunters
vegas  have a lot of common ground with some people who are if you care about conservation and call
may  find you have more in common with somebody who actually constant
to  the animals that they do with some of your fellow in
you  know that's a pragmatic
to  face reality
dealing  with particular men not dealing with mankind as
so  those are the kinds of reflections that max turner you know the planeteer really so
and  that's the sense in which it continues to have a kind of subtle influence on my
life  as i deal with being in politics
even  in that private email core
in  some of those
direct  confront
conversation  at the
so  that's a guy's i do think if you have your own out channel or you have your own platform on
social  media i would encourage you to make videos of this
yes  it is worth while to offer a wikipedia like discussion
what  is this philosophy about i mean i know of course that exists to do an introduction of philosophy
as
if  your point your video is to help people with their home work
but  i think it's more valuable given the nature of this medium given the advantages
and  disadvantages what you too is what social media as i think it is probably more value to talk
about
what  does this philosophy mean to me and in my
why  did it
because  that's something you're not going to get off with a
that's  something you're not going to get off of the